it's time for some tough love this is my
honest advice for anyone who wants to
become a Creator this year happy New
Year by the way pretty sure it's my
first video of the year I am filming in
December though just to break the 44
regardless this is a very important
video for you to kick the year off with
in this video I'm going to break down
all of the advice that I wish someone
shared with me when I first started my
journey as a content creator and by the
way this video is sponsored by story
blocks more on them later okay first
piece of honest advice I'm going to hold
your hand whilst I tell you this it is
not going to happen overnight and that
is okay in fact it's better than okay we
don't want all of your creative dreams
to happen overnight we don't want to
blow up and go viral and wake up to 1
million new subscribers as beautiful as
that probably sounds it's not something
that we actually want it doesn't set us
up for sustained growth or success I
actually filmed a video all about why
you shouldn't aim to go viral and I
filmed this video years ago I'll link to
it up here but this is just evidence
that I have felt this way from the very
beginning let me explain virality is
fleeting if you upload a video
regardless of what platform it's on and
it goes majorly viral in a short period
of time a few things can happen one is
that your popularity dips immediately
afterwards so people love that one video
but they never follow you subscribe so
you kind of just go back to normal which
isn't the end of the world two people
love the video that you went viral on so
much that you feel like you can only
create videos similar to that in the
future and anytime you deviate from that
video your views drop so therefore you
go back to filming the same thing this
usually ends in Burn out and you feeling
incredibly unmotivated about the work
that you're doing three and this is
usually the option that people assume
will happen you go viral everyone
follows you as a result and people love
everything that you do like Everything
You Touch turns to Gold whilst this
Probably sounds like the most amazing is
this like a Girl Scout or like a brownie
thing that I'm doing whilst that
probably seems like the most amazing
outcome there is a downside to that
outcome too because if you've gone viral
suddenly from one video even if you're
able to sustain that popularity there's
a big chance that you're not making the
most of the popularity because your
business isn't set up on the back end to
actually facilitate that amount of
growth for example I've worked with a
Creator who went viral once and they
remained viral for months and months
after that time Their audience just grew
they started to get these amazing brand
deals and then when I started working
with them and I mentioned tax they
looked like they'd seen a ghost because
they forgot that they'd have to save
some of that money for tax that's an
example of you blowing up earning a lot
of money very suddenly and not having
the financial procedures in place to
actually support it another example of
this is an educational Creator I worked
with who went viral and suddenly had a
lot of people who wanted to work with
her she hadn't thought about the ways in
which she would actually work with her
audience so she didn't have an offer she
didn't know what to charge and she
actually ended up missing out in a lot
of income and revenue because it took
her too long to set up that part of her
business all of this to say is that most
people will not blow up overnight but
that's a good thing so I want you to
stop aiming for instant virality and
instead I want you to aim for slow and
steady growth this is when you're
creating content about the topic or the
topics could be plural that you're
interested in and you're doing it
consistently over a period of time and
you are slowly gaining more and more
people into your audience over that
point that steady growth we will have
dips from time to time but the steady
growth which might take a few years for
you to get to the point that you really
want to get to that steady growth is far
more likely to result in you having
longevity in your career as a creator
also it is less overwhelming again I
know how great it sounds to go viral
overnight but going from having a few
comments every week on your content to
suddenly getting thousands that switch
that you go through where the volume of
conversations you're having suddenly
changes it takes a while to get your
head around and this is coming from a
Creator who I've had viral is videos but
I've never gone as viral as some people
go and for me I was likeo this is tough
it takes a little while to get your head
around right don't rush it the next
piece of advice I have for you is to get
serious about retention in your videos
and get serious about it from now I just
making the assumption that you the
Creator watching this the business owner
watching this you already have videos as
part of your content strategy I say this
because in this day it's incredibly
difficult to not have videos as part of
your strategy no judgment though if
you're someone who's like I only share
photos on Instagram and that's what
people love more power to you but most
people watching this share videos If you
share videos one of the most important
things that you could achieve for your
video is getting someone to watch
majority of it we underestimate the
importance of high retention this is
going to be one of the main things that
is going to help your videos perform
well is if you can create content that
people want to watch from the start
until the end one of my absolutely best
tactics for retention is to use videos
images sound effects Etc to make your
content more Dynamic so don't just rely
on you speaking to the camera I know
you're probably thinking Jade aren't you
just speaking to the camera I am but up
until this point have you not seen a
bunch of assets appear on the screen
whether it's sound effects it's text
it's stock videos Etc I'm purposely
using these in my video to try and break
up my content and keep you retained
right this is a tactic that I've used
from the beginning but honestly it only
started to really work when I started to
get all of my media assets from story
blocks if you don't know already story
blocks is a stock media Subscription
Service which gives you access to this
huge library of stock videos images
audio and sound effects it gives you
unlimited royalty-free assets that are
suitable for both creators and business
owners and it basically allows you to
use these assets without having to worry
about copyright issues it's really
really easy to use and one of my
favorite Parts about it is that it gives
you unlimited access to all of their
media at one set monthly cost this is
really important because a lot of other
platforms might charge you per clip so
that's called paper clip pricing so it's
basically like me saying I need to find
a video of someone working on a laptop
and then pay
for me to use that video with story
blocks I just pay a monthly fee and as a
result of that monthly fee I'm able to
get access to all of their media assets
and unlimited access to the library that
you get access to is honestly one of the
best in the market it's refreshed
frequently and it commissions content
based on customer demand the result of
that is that you're able to access high
quality diverse content that's suitable
for any of your video needs they also
compensate all of their artists fairly
and I don't think I need to explain just
how important that is so if you want to
focus on increasing the retention of
your video content I really recommend
checking out story blocks head to story
blocks.com jadb or of course you can
visit the link in my description okay so
my next piece of advice for you right is
having a high posting frequency so
basically telling yourself that you're
going to post multiple times a day on
Tik Tok every day on Instagram twice a
week on YouTube etc etc is completely
pointless if it's not sustainable and
this is like a tough pill to swallow I
think because a lot of us know that our
best bet to post on social media is to
post frequently right so every now and
then we get these bursts of motiv ation
you're probably getting one right now
cuz it's the start of the year you're
getting this burst of motivation where
you're like oh my God great I'm going to
be posting every day on Instagram I'm
going to be doing x y and Zed by the end
of the year I'm going to grow by this
amount but the thing is guys if it's not
sustainable for you if that doesn't suit
your lifestyle there's no point because
you're going to do it for 4 weeks and
then you're going to stop and you won't
get to actually reap the rewards of
having a frequency like that because you
didn't do it for long enough or what's
even worse for a lot of us is we'll do
it for a couple months maybe and then
we'll burn out because actually it
wasn't sustainable for us didn't suit
our lifestyle and just on the lifestyle
piece like if you know that you have
five kids and you do the school run and
they all go to different schools which
would be odd but you know that like
you're out and about with the kids every
day for like eight hours a day or
something telling yourself that you're
going to post five times on Tik Tok that
day when you know for a fact that that's
probably not going to happen all you're
doing is setting yourself up for failure
if you have set a goal to post more
content so to increase your frequency on
one of your channels which I have this
year as well I've set that goal for my
Instagram please please please make make
sure that you figured out how you're
going to facilitate posting more content
don't just tell yourself from now on
you're going to post five times a week
on Instagram make a plan if you are
currently operating at full capacity and
you do not have any spare time in your
day apart from the hour you spend just
scrolling on Tik Tok at the end of the
day right if you're already maxed out
don't tell yourself you're going to post
more you're not you don't have any time
you have to cut something out in order
for there to be space for you to spend
more time creating and sharing content
right I don't want us to set ourselves
up for failure is basically all I'm
saying if you're going to increase your
posting frequency great I'm rooting for
you make sure you figured out how you're
going to do it and make sure it fits
with your lifestyle okay this one's a
little bit deep if you know my content
well enough by out you know I have a
habit of like putting the slightly
trickier conversations to have later on
in my video because I feel like if
you're still with me by this point then
you get me and therefore you're going to
understand what I'm saying this learning
is that things will change when you
start making money not always for the
better mostly things will change for the
better let's not pretend that money
doesn't help a lot of people's lives
like of course it does so there's huge
benefits from making money sometimes
when you're so focused on making money
as a Creator the negatives that come
with it can sometimes catch you off
guard because in your mind you weren't
really mentally prepared for any
negatives so let me break down what some
of these negatives are the first one is
that content creation will feel like
work for a lot of us when we start this
journey content creation is a hobby when
you start making money it will not be a
hobby it will be a job even if you
already have a job it's now another job
that you're doing the second it becomes
a job it is not as fun at least for most
of us you can still have fun doing it
but now there's deadline mindes and
there's some pressure alongside it so
it's not as fun as it used to be that
doesn't mean that you hate it okay this
is what I mean about people not being
mentally prepared for the negative sides
is that if you aren't prepared for the
negative sides of earning money you can
sometimes make them mean more than they
do so you start earning money for your
content creation and then you're like
wait I'm not enjoying this as much as I
used to maybe this isn't for me maybe I
should change all my content maybe I
should quit when actually it's just a
natural switch between this being a
hobby and this being a job what that
also means is that you now need a
different Hobby and this took me years
years for me to realize this I've only
just realized this I still sometimes see
content creation as a hobby it's not my
hobby anymore it's my job which means I
now need a hobby I now need to spend
time not on content creation so just
keep that in mind another thing that's
going to happen when you start making
money depending on how you make money is
that your audience might start to feel a
bit more entitled to you in your life
I'm very fortunate in that this hasn't
quite happened to me but I think that's
because of my Niche I think lifestyle
vloggers get this more I recently
watched a vlog of a crator who I met a
while ago she is moving to another
country right and I was like oh how
interesting I wonder why she's moving
there so I watched the Vlog I scrolled
down and a few comments caught my eye
she was getting ripped in her comments
from her audience basically demanding
more information on why she was moving
to another country they weren't
satisfied with her answer and I
literally saw comments which said we pay
your bills so you need to tell us why
you're
moving and that like blew my mind
because you guys would never do that to
me but I was
like what people are going to feel
entitled if they feel like they are
responsible for your income they will
start to feel like you work for them and
that can change the dynamic sometimes
again not with everyone I'm very
fortunate you guys have never made me
feel that way but for some people that
does happen another negative and one
that I have experienced is what happens
when you start to sell something so if
you start to sell a product or service
some people will not like it and that's
completely Fair an example have I had
with this was I do these challenges
inside my membership and I did my
Instagram challenge like a while ago and
I spoke about it on my community Tab and
I got a comment from someone cuz
basically in order to do the Instagram
challenge it's like a 4-we challenge you
have to join the collective and I got a
comment from someone being like it's
really unfair that you are charging for
this challenge which I thought was a
really interesting view because in my
mind I'm like but all of this content
that I share on YouTube is free Nothing
in life is free you're giving me your
attention you're watching some ads and
I'm earning from the ads don't get me
wrong but for the most part to learn
from me on YouTube it's mostly free so
then when I do something like an
Instagram challenge that takes myself
and my team months to create and months
to manage I have to charge for it
because otherwise my business doesn't
make money but I thought it was
interesting that even with a business
model like mine that I actually think is
pretty fair because so much content is
free even with a business model like
that people still won't be happy with it
and that is just genuinely something you
have to accept obviously with all of
those in mind these my usual caveats
that I have to say for the odd person
who doesn't know my content and
therefore is probably dodging me right
now obviously with all of that in mind
being able able to earn money through
social media as a content creator is an
incredible privilege and none of those
negatives negate that like none of those
negatives detract from the fact that
this is an incredible job to have at an
industry to be in these are just things
these are just advice and things that I
think is worth knowing before you really
get going that rhymed next piece of
advice everything doesn't work for
everyone feel like I have to share this
in at least one video every year because
it's so important and it's just worth
repeating everything doesn't work for
everyone now let's take my content for
example when I create this educational
content about how to I don't know launch
your business I'm creating that video
for the masses so I'm hoping that loads
of people watch it and loads of people
get value from it that will mean that
there will be a portion of people who
watch that video who will be like this
doesn't work for me because I want to
create a business that sells a product
and this video is about how to create a
business that sells a service that's
okay it's impossible for educational
creators to produce content for the
masses that will work for every single
person because you're so unique your
channel is unique your audience is
unique instead of watching educational
videos like mine or other creators with
the mindset of every single thing that
is shared must work otherwise none of it
works the best mindset to have is I'm
going to try all of these tips because
one of these will probably work it's
okay if the other ones don't those other
tips will work for other people that's
just something to keep in mind that
might help you on your journey another
piece of advice is that nobody cares no
one cares there's a quote that I've
referred to so many times in my videos
before is it's not a quote it's a lyric
from the streets and the lyric is you'd
worry less about what they thought if
you realize how little they did I
remember hearing this in the early days
of my YouTube channel like I don't even
know if I'd started it yet and it was
just it just scratched that part of my
brain that needed to be scratched and I
was like yeah I needed to hear this
right so maybe you need to hear this
today you'd worry less about what they
thought so you'd worry less about what
all of your friends or your family all
these strangers think if you realize how
little they actually think about you
they don't no one cares no one cares
we're all so busy thinking about
ourselves like even if you pop up in
conversation to someone when you went to
school with and they're like did you see
she started a YouTube channel oh yeah
that's weird that's literally where the
conversation's going to end like that's
it no one's doing think pieces on your
journey to becoming a content creator
unless you are already famous it's just
not happening so next time you convince
yourself not to film or take some photos
because you're too embarrassed and what
will people think I want you to remember
that lyric you'd worry less about what
they thought if you realize how little
they did all right guys we're almost
there I didn't realize just how much
advice I'd written down but it turns out
there's a lot of things I wish I knew at
the beginning so there's a lot of stuff
for me to share the next one that you
can't fake it this is a big one you
cannot fake caring about something in
your content especially if you create
video content double especially doesn't
make the most sense especially
especially what especially times two
especially time two let's go with that
if you create long form video content
like the one that you're watching right
now on YouTube if you do not care about
the subject that you're talking about so
let's say you've decided that you're
going to create content about Finance
because you know that you can make a lot
of money if you talk about Finance but
you actually don't care about Finance do
you know how difficult it's going to be
for you to come across as someone who's
engaging and excited to be filming that
video if you actually don't care about
what you're talking about also you are
going to burn out so quick like it is
going to be the easiest thing for you to
quit and give up on if you don't care
about what you're talking about people
frequently maybe not so much anymore
when I first got started I remember
people saying to me like aren't you
worried that you're going to get bored
about talking about marketing and I was
like babe I've literally literally
worked marketing for 8 years I studied
it for 4 years before that I've already
been talking about marketing for several
years like this is already something
that I do every day it's something that
a lot of people in the world do every
day and therefore it's easy for me to
continue doing this I actually enjoy
talking about this stuff and hopefully
you can tell by the way that I talk
about it if I didn't I would have quit
by now and none of you guys would be
following me cuz you'd feel it you'd
feel the vibe through the lens and you'd
be like this girl's not it she's not
being genuine so keep that in mind the
last one and this is just a quick one I
truly believe that if you commit
yourself to these two things you will
see success I don't know when you're
going to see success but you will see
success the first thing is consistency
obviously I'm not going to harop on
about it we all know that if we upload
content regularly and consistently on
social media that puts us in a good
position to actually seek success but
the other thing is a commitment to
improving you kind of need both one
doesn't really work without the other
it's not enough just to be like I'm
going to post two YouTube videos a week
and that is it if you're not also going
to commit to try and improving your
content if you go back to the first
video that I ever uploaded which as I
said it I'd probably wish I didn't ask
you to go back that video but I've said
it now go back watch the video this
video is a lot better or at least I hope
it is because my God has it been more
expensive to create but this video is a
lot better like I've consistently been
trying to be better on camera to present
better to research better to buy better
cameras to get an editor who's better at
editing than me to buy better lights
like everything I'm constantly trying to
improve and whilst I'm not saying that
with every video you have to make this
huge Improvement sometimes it is the
smallest thing sometimes it's you
figuring out what camera angle is right
for you which I still don't feel like
I've really nailed sometimes it's you
taking a little bit longer to plan your
Vlog for the day instead of just
grabbing the camera and filming straight
away they could be micro improvements
and they don't have to be after every
video but you do have to be improving
like in the long run you got to be
improving if you're consistent and you
improve in the long run you will
eventually see success okay guys loved
filming that I love filming videos like
this let me know if you enjoyed it cuz
then I'll feelm more if you feel like
hanging around I recommend watching this
video it's all about the strategy and
the tactics that I'm using to improve my
business business as a Creator this year
and Beyond do not forget to check out
story blogs via the link in my
description so that you can get your
hands on high quality video images and
sound effects thank you so much for
watching as always I can't wait to see
you in my next video